Hello everyone in this lesson we will begin learning about pages in our previous lesson.
We created a few posts and in this lesson we will create a few pages.
Let's begin with the important question.
What is the difference between a post and a page.
Well a page is exactly what it sounds like.
It's a page on our website.
For example that could be an about us page or a Contact Us page or a photo gallery page a page is meant
to be its own independent entity.
It can stand alone and you would typically have links to pages in the navigation area towards the top
of your website.
Also a page usually is not time sensitive like a blog post might be on the front end public facing portion
of our website.
We don't usually display the date that a page was created like we do with blog posts so we might say
that a page is an example of evergreen content.
A page is timeless and we can contrast all of this with a post right because we know that a post is
a part of a collection.
A blog page shows multiple posts at once and a post is time sensitive that a blog page will be sorted
with the newest posts on top.
Now if everything I just said didn't make any sense that's OK because the best way to learn about pages
vs posts is not to listen to an explanation but to simply go and create a few pages in wordpress.
So let's do that right now.
All right.
So here I am on the admin dashboard of my web site and let's create a few pages in case you've forgotten
how to navigate to this admin screen.
Remember that you are able to get here is simply the base or route part of your you RL.
So the part that I'm highlighting and that will be slightly different for your web site.
But then after the root of your you are l just out on a slash and then W P add men.
OK so once you log in you'll be taken to an admin screen that looks similar to this.
And our goal right now is to create a few new pages.
So in this left hand side bar a few links down from the top here we see an option named pages and when
I hover over it noticed this menu appears and I'm interested in the add new option so on this screen
we are creating a brand new page.
Let's begin by giving this page a title.
So in this first field let's call this new page about us.
You're free to use whatever title you want but this is what I'm going to use.
And then down in the main content field.
For now let's just add a bit of placeholder content so this page will contain real about us related
content very soon.
You get the idea.
We can fill in this area with more content in the future.
But for now let's just go ahead and create this new page.
So over on the right hand side of the screen lets use this blue publish button.
OK so we just successfully created a new page.
But you'll notice that if we jump over to the public facing portion of our Web site so if we use this
link towards the top left the link with the home icon if we click that this is our home page.
This is what the general public sees.
You'll notice that there's no link to that new about us page.
Clearly that's a problem right because how can we expect the visitors of our website to ever find the
about us page.
If there isn't a prominently displayed link to it now in about 60 seconds from now I will show you how
to create navigation links so we will learn how to create links towards the top of our Web site right
about here that link to different pages.
But before we do that why don't we go back into the admin area and create a second page so that way
we have multiple pages to experiment with so I can use this link to go back to my admin area and let's
create another page.
So if I hover over pages and click add new just a moment ago we created an about us page.
Why don't we now create a contact us page and again in the content area.
I will just type this page will contain real contact related content very soon.
OK so we will update this later but for now let's publish this page.
Ok and now we have two pages.
We have about us and contact us and if we jump over to our public Web site the question still remains
if we don't have links to those pages.
How are the visitors of our Web site ever supposed to find them.
Now the solution here is to add a navigation menu.
Maybe right about here that includes links to our various pages and luckily WordPress makes it fairly
simple to create a navigation menu.
So check this out.
Let's use this link to jump back to our admin area and if we want to create a navigation menu Let me
show you where you would look in this left hand side bar.
Look for the item named appearance and then when you hover over appearance these extra options should
appear and we're interested in the menus link.
So go ahead and click on menus and now on this screen since our website is brand new it doesn't contain
any menus at the moment.
So our first step is to create a new menu in this field right here.
You just click and then give the menu a name.
It doesn't really matter what you name the menu the visitors of your website usually will not see this
menu name really the name is just for your own organization purposes.
So for example I will name my menu main menu but you can name it whatever you want then go ahead and
click the blue create menu button.
And now it's just a matter of adding different pages and links to our menu.
So for example right about here we see a list of all of the pages that we've created so far.
And if I want to add a link to the About Us page in our menu I can just check this box next to about
us and then click this add menu button OK.
So this area is basically a preview of our menu.
So currently the menu only contains this one linked to about us and if we also want to add.
Contact us over in this area.
Obviously we would just check the box for contact us.
We could have checked it just a moment ago so you can check multiple pages at once you get the idea.
But we just want to add.
Contact us and then click add to Menu OK.
So now our menu contains these two links.
We will add more pages and links in the future.
But for now this looks good.
And now our final step is to choose where on the page.
This menu should be displayed.
Basically we need to decide do we want this navigation menu to be up at the top of the page in our header
or do we want to be down at the bottom of the page in the footer or do we want it to be in the side
bar.
So you'll notice that down here we have an area named display location with three options to choose
from.
Later in the course we will learn how to have more options here to choose from.
But for now the choice is pretty simple.
I think it's best for navigation menus towards the top of the Web site near the header.
So I will check this box that reads primary.
OK so now we're good to go.
I'm going to click this blue save menu button.
There's also a copy of that button up here.
Click either one save menu.
And now let's jump over to our public Web site.
And good news right below the header we see this navigation menu.
So right now we're on the home page but if I click on this about us link that takes me to the About
Us page remember here is that placeholder content.
This page will contain real about us related content very soon.
Check out that you are Albar right so it took us to slash about us and back in the navigation menu if
we click on Contact Us.
Obviously that takes us to the Contact Us page.
OK.
And then you can always click on the name of your web site.
So this heading to go back to your home page and there you have it.
So we have a mini web site at this point right.
We have a home page and we have a navigation bar where visitors can switch between our various pages.
Now practice makes perfect.
So before we end this lesson why don't we try to create another new page and then add it to our navigation
menu.
So let's use this link to go back to the admin area to create a new page I will hover over pages and
click add new.
You can create whatever new page you want and name it whatever you want.
But I'm going to call this page photo gallery and then down here I will say photo gallery content will
live on this page very soon.
Looks good so I will click this publish button ok so I just created a new page and now the next step
is to add it to the navigation menu.
So remember when you want to deal with menus look in the sidebar for appearance.
Here it is.
And then out of all of these appearance options we want menus.
OK so here's what our menu currently contains just these two links.
And here is a list of all of our available pages.
So obviously I want to add the photo gallery page so check the check box and then just click add to
menu and maybe I don't want the photo gallery link to be the last link in the menu.
Maybe I want it to be second so maybe I want to come before contact us.
Well reordering the links is super easy you can just click and drag so you can drag it wherever you
want.
So I want it to be there and then just click the blue save menu button again and now if we switch back
over to our public Web site here we see the navigation.
And more importantly here we see our new photo gallery link.
Perfect.
And that's actually going to bring this lesson to a close.
Now in future lessons we will learn a lot more about pages so that we will be able to actually build
out the real content for the About Us page and for the photo gallery page and for the Contact Us page.
OK.
So don't worry we won't have this placeholder content forever.
But before we get to that and build up the real content there's something even more important I want
to cover first.
I want to show you how to customize the overall appearance of your website.
So for example what if you wanted the margins of your website to be wider or narrower or what if you
want to use different colors for the text and the links or what if you want to use a different background
color instead of white you get the idea.
Now when we talk about the visual appearance the stylistic appearance of our WordPress website what
we are really talking about is the theme of our Web site.
That's a word you are going to hear over and over again in the Wordpress universe theme and in our very
next lesson we will get our first taste of what the theme is we will learn how to switch to a different
theme and we will also learn how to customize the appearance settings of the current theme that we have
chosen.
It's going to be a ton of fun.
This is where you really get to customize your Web site.
So let's keep things rolling and I'll see you in the next lesson.